friends here,
we're going to discuss about six model.
Basically,
it's This model is used to work with fight on run time environment.
I mean,
while running your pipe and skip.
If you want to interact with your pipes on interpreter,
then six Model is helpful place.
Generally,
people will get confused whenever if they are discussing aboard six model.
So generally six means we will feel it as a system.
Yes,
of course it is system,
but it is not your operating system.
Whenever.
If you're using six model in bite on,
it is helpful to get a bite on run time environment on your system,
not about your system.
It is about fight under time.
Environment on your system,
right?
Fine.
No,
this system ordeal provides some functions and variables.
You know any model is probably always some functions,
and variables are simply some operations on these functions on the variables are used to
manipulate different parts off the bite on one time in Iran.
Man,
let's say you are using python three dot seminar Jiro.
To get that information,
you can use this model right.
You have different things.
I will show you one by one,
right simply assume that this is used to get 500 time in the Roman details.
Aren't we know that if you want to use any model,
not only says what is the first step you're to do always.
We have to import that on those list out all functions and variables and to get some
documentation,
these two are the helpful things The i r off your model will do the list.
Off operations are functions and variables on help.
Offices will do the complete documentation.
Right.
So we are at initial stage.
Let me open once again my python cardinal,
right,
By typing simply bite on,
Let me import says then the air off sis will do the list off operations or the functions
which are there with your cysts on the variables.
So by seeing all of these,
you can't understand which is a function which is available then how you can understand
that.
That's why you have a document here.
So initially your attention stays right.
That's why before going to use all these operations,
just have a glance once on your help.
Your document.
Just go through this start.
Go down Just having glands.
Don't try to learn,
then some very hope.
See functions like No,
these are the functions.
Let me go down.
Right.
It will take some time.
Just wait.
Let me go down.
Now you have a data that means whatever you hear,
they are like variables.
That's it.
Well,
you know,
if you want to use variable from any model you had to do,
simply supposed let me take one of the variable called black form.
So,
guys,
this is not a were operating system.
Details win 32.
It is.
You are fight on software which is install on your host as a little bit on windows.
I installed my Pythons affairs attack YouTube.
It frightens off.
That's it.
Let's say how one more variable called wash in,
right.
If it is a function,
not take parenthesis.
Fine.
Now let me open is simple script.
So let me open my stuff.
Blame text.
So I'm going to write a simple script using us this morning,
right?
So common lane or helpful to know your documentation,
Right?
But if you want to write the script just a just select any leader I'm selecting suppose
sibling text.
I'm going to work with the system model.
So basics offices not be late so that I want to use this model.
Then what is the first of all?
I need to go import six model.
So you have seen What are the list off operations which are there with the hostess model by
running simply d a r off ur sister I So these are all the operations?
No.
Simple ding zi.
I want toe display the Washington off my fight on If you remember right,
you can find out that using your from common line you can done simply bite on space iPhone
,
iPhone worship Right on.
Previously,
we heard a discussion on platform model in platform models.
So you have one of the operation to get your piped on.
Russian.
Fine.
Forget about all those things.
Simply using six.
Also,
you can get your fight on and internment details.
That is simply says,
don't wash in.
I'm saving on running Sit output.
Yes,
you are getting I want to get in terms off a couple.
See that you're getting right.
So either wash in our Washington for both will give your fight on information details.
Then let me come in.
These two things these two are variables,
right?
I'm going to take some more variables.
Suppose I want to know the models,
which you import a two run your pie transcript.
So for that insists you have a modules.
Since not models will list out simply,
you're not going to use them.
But simply,
we are seeing how many models you are importing to run your by transcript.
As of now,
you are importing only six,
right?
But see the magic,
what you're getting.
See these all of the models,
different models you are importing to run your python script.
Actually,
you are not importing.
You are importing on leases that is there in the very first in output,
but remaining all models by default.
Your Piketon is important to run your python scripts by default.
Fight on is also importing some manuals.
So we are able to see that information with help offices.
That's why we're saying that sis is a modular to work with your python runtime minute on
men,
right?
Not only that,
let me take one more thing,
brain.
Since not but what is this?
Is that part first of the output?
You're getting some list off parts.
See while running your pie.
Transcript Your vital needs some libraries and models,
right?
All those libraries and models your python is importing from all these parts.
See,
not only here if you're good at the water,
any windows or UNIX like systems,
right?
C system is also depending on some parts.
So these are the parts your system is using.
Why learning some scripts are programs on your Windows operating system the same way Well
running by Transkei.
Python needs to some parts from Virginia.
It is importing some models.
It's a biting for python is importing some models no than from which location it has to
import.
That information is there.
Insist dark part.
Now,
simply you can say that sister part is a environment variable for you.
Our fight on use it He's on envy.
Known meant variable for fight on.
That's it.
Fine.
Okay,
so these all whatever we discuss just no right.
You may or may not use regularly in your real time,
but the next thing whatever.
I'm going to write that you are going to use it,
right?
What is that?
Just abd area.
So yeah,
I'm reading simply print Hello under skipper and see the output?
Yes.
You're getting your output.
Hello.
Right now What I'm doing is before you were Hello,
I'm writing system nor exit.
Stop my python runtime in Iran.
May that means stop the script.
See that you're not getting anything because,
actually,
but nobody if you press control be or whenever.
If you run your script from common line Something like fight on your script name.
You are trying to run your pythons through.
But what I'm saying internally inside off your skip somewhere I'm saying Please stop my
python.
That is a meaning off sister exit.
So you are working with your python saying that stopped right on.
So you are stopping your running Python script,
right?
So because of this system exit,
your Buyten's is going to stop your run.
Stop!
You're running your pie.
Transcript.
That's why you are not able to get this or put by this line itself.
You're stopping Then you are not excluding this line.
Be clear.
It will be very useful.
While going forward,
I'll use in different scenarios this sister exit the simple meaning forces That exit is
whenever if your fight on identifies sister exit simply You are abrupt ing or stopping your
fight on script.
That's it.
Okay,
on this is a function.
So by default,
sister exit,
will you return Cora's zero?
If you want to provide any other than generating course,
you can pass your course here.
So how do you that courts We will see for timing.
Just assume that sister exit.
But we,
by default with the jury,
has returned court.
And if you want to provide any return course,
yes,
you can provide inside off your parentheses.
That's why it's his dart exit is a function.
Okay.
Okay,
guys,
thank you for watching this video.